# The Havana Urgency Court (HUC) Project

Due to its surprising durability and ample jurisdiction, the HUC constitutes a precious source of data. The HUC was created in 1934 and mirrored in the rest of Cuban provinces during Fulgencio Batista’s first de facto rule to suffocate the revolutionary impulse of the 1930s. Amidst several denounces of their unconstitutional character their institutional organization experienced significant reforms in 1936, but they remained active until the first law of the new revolutionary government abolish them in 1959. HUC’s “inquisitorial” nature (Maza, 1947) explains why this archive encompasses not only court records but also documents from several law enforcement agencies, including the military intelligence service (SIM). These records comprise police’s minutes of arrests, internal state correspondence and communications, and official reports of covert investigations of oppositional organizations and participants. Moreover, the HUC files include original activist-produced documents presented as evidence by state agencies, such as underground propaganda, private correspondence, and formal movement communications. 

Drawing on an extensive state archive previously unexplored in a systematic way, this project challenges and updates our knowledge of the Cuban Revolution. Thus, it maps variations in tactics of legal repression and legal mobilization from 1952 to 1958. The HUC records illustrate the relationships among and within several anti-Batista organizations and, more notably, the various and shared interactions of dissenters with apparatuses of state repression.

